
Create an Azure Resource Group using Terraform

Overview

    In this tutorial, we will learn how to create a Resource Group in Azure using Terraform. A Resource Group is a container for managing resources like VMs, storage, etc.

Prerequisites

    •	Terraform installed
    •	Azure CLI installed
    •	Azure account with contributor access
    •	Authenticated with Azure using a Service Principal (details given in the other article in this repository)

Step 1: Create a Directory on C Drive

    We are using Windows machine. So create a directory named tf-azure-rg on the root of C drive.

Step 2: Create Terraform Config File

    In the directory, create a file named main.tf:
    
    Add the following contents to the file.
    
    provider "azurerm" {
      features {
    }
    }
    
    resource "azurerm_resource_group" "rgtest" {
      name     = "rg-tf-demo"
      location = "West Europe"
    }

Step 3: Initialize Terraform

    terraform init
    
    Initializes the working directory and downloads Azure provider.

Step 4: Preview Changes

    terraform plan
    
    Shows the details about what Terraform will do without making any changes.

Step 5: Apply the Configuration

    terraform apply
    
    Type yes if you are sure to proceed with the creation of resource group in Azure. Terraform will now create the resource group in Azure.

Step 6: Verify in Azure Portal

    Go to https://portal.azure.com.
    Navigate to Resource groups.
    We will see rg-tf-demo created in West Europe region.


Step 7 (Optional): Destroy the Resource Group

    If you are creting the resources for testing, always delete the resources to prevent any costs in Azure. 
    To delete the resource group we created, run:
    
    terraform destroy

Tips

    •	You can parameterize the location and name using variables in variables.tf for reusability.
    •	Always commit your .tf files to a version control system like GitHub.
    •	Never hardcode secrets in .tf files. Use environment variables.


